---
layout: post
title: "GraphiQL for ASP.NET Core"
teaser: "description"
author: "Jürgen Gutsch"
comments: true
image: /img/cardlogo-dark.png
tags: 
- .NET Core
- Unit Test
- XUnit
- MSTest
---

One nice thing about blogging is the feedback from the readers. I got some nice kudos, but also great ideas. One idea was born out of a question about a "graphi" UI for the GraphQL Middleware I wrote. I never heard about "graphi", which actually is "graphiql", a generic HTML UI over a GraphQL endpoint. It seems to be something like a Swagger UI, but just for GraphQL. That sounds nice and I did some research about that.

The first idea was to write something like this by my own. But it should be the same as the existing graphiql UI. Why not using the existing implementation? Thanks to Steve Sanderson, we have the Node Services for ASP.NET Core. Why not running the existing graphiql implementation in a middleware using the Node Services?

I started playing around with this and added it to the existing project: graphql-middleware-for-aspnetcore

It is as easy to use as the GraphQlMiddleware. Registering the services:

~~~ csharp
services.AddraphQl(new GraphQlMiddlewareOptions
{
    GraphApiUrl = "/graph", // default
    RootGraphType = new BooksQuery(bookRepository),
    FormatOutput = true // default: false
});
services.AddGraphiql(new GraphiqlMiddlewareOptions
{
    GraphiqlUrl = "/graphi", // default
});
~~~

Adding the MiddleWares:

~~~ csharp
app.UseGraphQl();
app.UseGraphiql();
~~~

The GraphiqlMiddleware calls the NodeServices to execute the NodeJS graphiql implementation, passing the relevant data to it. The Node Services returns the generated HTML UI and the Middleware writes it to the response stream. 

Now start the web using Visual Studio (press [F5]). The web starts with the default view. Add "graphi" to the URL in the browsers address bar and see what happens. You should see a generated UI for your GraphQL endpoint, where you can play around with our API, testing and debugging it with your current data.

You wanna try it? Download, clone or fork the sources on [GitHub](https://github.com/JuergenGutsch/graphql-aspnetcore).

What do you think about that? Please leave a comment and tell me about your opinion.