---
layout: post
title: "Introducing sharply - A C# implementation for blockly"
teaser: "description"
author: "Jürgen Gutsch"
comments: true
image: /img/cardlogo-dark.png
tags: 
- .NET Core
- ScriptCs
- Blockly
- csharp
---

My three boys really love robotics, all kind of electronics and devices, Lego technique, Lego Power Functions. Not sure whether I'm the reason because of this or not ;-)

Sure, I've four Raspberry PI's on my second desk, a lot of sensors, screens and electronic stuff. I planned to do a lot of automation, but it was much more fun to build cool stuff with the kids. I built a remote controlled car with them. Will build a new one using some more cool sensors and try to create a kind of a robot with it.

I also like the Idea to control Lego Power Functions with the PI. You need a bit of electronic skills to get it running, but at the end is it a much cheaper robotic solution than Lego Mindstorms. Anyway the goal is to help the Kids programming that stuff. I stumbled upon Scratch on Raspian and my oldest son really like to use it, because it's simple and easy to understand. Unfortunately Scratch isn't translated to German and it won't be translated in the near future. It's also not the easy to extend. Last year during the MVP summit I learned about Microsoft Make Code to program such devices using a scratch like style. But this time the blocks are translated into many different languages and can be used in the Browsers. 

Make Code is based on Blockly, which is a Scratch like IDE build by Google completely with JavaScript and HTML. It is amazing. You are able to create your own blocks and your own language implementations. By default it supports JavaScript (cause it is based on that), Python (which is great for the PI), PHP (don't have an idea why) and some others. C# isn't supported yet.

There are some C# implementations done by the community, but it seems they are not longer maintained yet. So I'm going to try an own one.

To also execute C# code via Blockly, I'll need to add a runtime to it.

- Blazor for browser side execution
- .NET Core for Desktop side execution
- ScriptCs as a scripting implementation